
Exceptional trials for AI LLM models to solve, to generate fine-tuning prompt/response examples and to test more capable larger parameter high-numerical precision AI models. 

All of these problems and solutions simultaneously combine:
* Algorithms.
* Command having correct parameters within.
* Diagnosing unknown logic fault.
Such a combination of very complicated logic, exact requirements, and limited explanation of functionality, is an especially difficult case of problems. Usually only both the most structured training and genuinely largest parameter count is sufficient for an AI model to solve such problems.

Function '_format_trial' is included with 'ubiquitous_bash' to create JSONL datasets from the convenient Markdown files.



Convert to prompt/response fine-tuning dataset combining 'prompt-problem.md' files with corresponding 'response-solution-llama-3.1-405b-instruct.md', 'response-solution-deepseek-r1-671b-reasoning.md' files.

Example of such combined prompt - 'prompt-autogenerate-deepseek-r1-671b-reasoning.md' .


If a response file does not exist, autogenerate the response file by combining the 'prompt-problem.md', 'solution-base.md', 'prompt-solution-instruct.md' (or reasoning), files as a prompt. Use the largest parameter count similar model available (ie. use Llama-405b-INSTRUCT , do NOT use Llama-4 ). The correct solution may be enough to generate correct explanations, to bring out as much subtle understanding of concepts in the best style as available from models trained on the usual corpus of text, use the largest parameter count similar model regardless.

Do NOT attempt such autogeneration directly with mixture-of-experts models, at least not without comprehensive manual review of the accuracy of the responses. Instead, autogenerate a response with a largest parameter count similar model, and either use that response for fine-tuning regardless (ie. use Llama-405b-INSTRUCT to generate fine-tuning for Llama-4 ), or use both comprehensive manual review for accuracy and the misture-of-experts model itself to rewrite the response again (ie. use use Llama-405b-INSTRUCT to generate a fine-tuning response, rewrite that response with Llama-4, use comprehensive manual review).


If relying on manual review to autogenerate a response for fine-tuning, ensure all autogenerated output is correct. Not necessarily ideal, but absolutely correct, no mistakes.


All response output must be copied for fine tuning, including reasoning.


Teaching a larger parameter model (eg. Llama-405b-INSTRUCT ) some REASONING by including 'response-solution-*.md' files as fine-tuning responses may be more helpful than fine-tuning a dedicated chain-of-reasoning model. Especially if the alternative REASONING model to fine-tune has fewer or does not have far more 'active parameters'. Chain-of-reasoning models can be very sensitive to missing concepts due to accumulating compounding absent concepts and needle-in-haystack issues, more readily degrading by lower parameter count or quantization, than for an INSTRUCT model.

